text = """What Is Retrieval-Augmented Generation, aka RAG?
Retrieval-augmented generation is a technique for enhancing the accuracy and reliability of generative AI models with information from specific and relevant data sources.To understand the latest advancements in generative AI, imagine a courtroom. 

Judges hear and decide cases based on their general understanding of the law. Sometimes a case — like a malpractice suit or a labor dispute — requires special expertise, so judges send court clerks to a law library, looking for precedents and specific cases they can cite.

Like a good judge, large language models (LLMs) can respond to a wide variety of human queries. But to deliver authoritative answers — grounded in specific court proceedings or similar ones  — the model needs to be provided that information.

The court clerk of AI is a process called retrieval-augmented generation, or RAG for short.

How It Got Named ‘RAG’
Patrick Lewis, lead author of the 2020 paper that coined the term, apologized for the unflattering acronym that now describes a growing family of methods across hundreds of papers and dozens of commercial services he believes represent the future of generative AI.“We definitely would have put more thought into the name had we known our work would become so widespread,” Lewis said in an interview from Singapore, where he was sharing his ideas with a regional conference of database developers. 

“We always planned to have a nicer sounding name, but when it came time to write the paper, no one had a better idea,” said Lewis, who now leads a RAG team at AI startup Cohere.
So, What Is Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)? 
Retrieval-augmented generation is a technique for enhancing the accuracy and reliability of generative AI models with information fetched from specific and relevant data sources.

In other words, it fills a gap in how LLMs work. Under the hood, LLMs are neural networks, typically measured by how many parameters they contain. An LLM’s parameters essentially represent the general patterns of how humans use words to form sentences.

That deep understanding, sometimes called parameterized knowledge, makes LLMs useful in responding to general prompts. However, it doesn’t serve users who want a deeper dive into a specific type of information.

Combining Internal, External Resources
Lewis and colleagues developed retrieval-augmented generation to link generative AI services to external resources, especially ones rich in the latest technical details.

The paper, with coauthors from the former Facebook AI Research (now Meta AI), University College London and New York University, called RAG “a general-purpose fine-tuning recipe” because it can be used by nearly any LLM to connect with practically any external resource.

Building User Trust
Retrieval-augmented generation gives models sources they can cite, like footnotes in a research paper, so users can check any claims. That builds trust.

What’s more, the technique can help models clear up ambiguity in a user query. It also reduces the possibility that a model will give a very plausible but incorrect answer, a phenomenon called hallucination.

Another great advantage of RAG is it’s relatively easy. A blog by Lewis and three of the paper’s coauthors said developers can implement the process with as few as five lines of code.

That makes the method faster and less expensive than retraining a model with additional datasets. And it lets users hot-swap new sources on the fly.

How People Are Using RAG
With retrieval-augmented generation, users can essentially have conversations with data repositories, opening up new kinds of experiences. This means the applications for RAG could be multiple times the number of available datasets.

For example, a generative AI model supplemented with a medical index could be a great assistant for a doctor or nurse. Financial analysts would benefit from an assistant linked to market data.

In fact, almost any business can turn its technical or policy manuals, videos or logs into resources called knowledge bases that can enhance LLMs. These sources can enable use cases such as customer or field support, employee training and developer productivity.

The broad potential is why companies including AWS, IBM, Glean, Google, Microsoft, NVIDIA, Oracle and Pinecone are adopting RAG."""